README.md, before:

# 🔎 RSNChecker [Version: 1.7]

# 🔎 RSNChecker [Version: 1.8]

**RSNChecker** is an open-source project written in Python that allows you to search for a Runescape name to see if it's available. You can search for either a single username or enter multiple usernames (I've tested 500 usernames at once) with the added benefit of either checking OSRS Hiscores or RS3 Hiscores.

## ✨ What's New in Version 1.8

- 📋 **Enhanced Progress Tracking**: Detailed per-name status with retry capability for errors
- 📝 **Run-Specific Logging**: Automatic log file creation for each run (timestamped)
- 🔄 **Smart Retry Logic**: Failed checks are retryable, successful checks are skipped
- 📊 **Better Export**: CSV/XLSX exports now include status and error columns
- 🎯 **Detailed Statistics**: Track checked, available, taken, and error counts
- 🗂️ **Improved Progress Format**: JSON with per-name metadata (status, timestamp, error details)

## 🎯 Features

- **Enhanced Progress Tracking**: Per-name status tracking (checked/error/pending) with retry capability
- **Run-Specific Logging**: Automatic timestamped log files in `logs/` directory for debugging
- **File Loading**: Load usernames from .txt files for easy batch processing
- **Multi-Threading**: Check multiple names simultaneously (1-10 concurrent workers)
- **Export Results**: Save results to CSV or XLSX with status and error information
- **Batch Search**: Check multiple usernames at once (tested with 500+ names)
- **Dual Platform Support**: Search both OSRS and RS3 Hiscores
- **Random Name Generator**: Generate 2-3 letter/number combinations for rare names
- **Real-time Logging**: See detailed progress, validation, and results
- **Non-blocking UI**: Responsive interface that never freezes
- **Smart Validation**: Comprehensive input validation with helpful error messages

## ✨ What's New in Version 1.7

- � **File Loading**: Load names from .txt files with one name per line
- ⚡ **Multi-Threading**: Parallel name checking with configurable workers (1-10)
- � **Progress Tracking**: Automatic checkpoint system - resume where you left off
- 📊 **Export Results**: Export available names to CSV or XLSX format
- 🎚️ **Worker Control**: Adjust concurrent threads with slider for optimal performance
- 🔄 **Smart Resume**: Automatically skips already-checked names
- �️ **Clear Progress**: Reset checkpoint data with one click

# 🧭 Demo

![Image](/images/image.png?raw=true "Demo")

## 🎯 Features

- **File Loading**: Load usernames from .txt files for easy batch processing
- **Multi-Threading**: Check multiple names simultaneously (1-10 concurrent workers)
- **Progress Tracking**: Automatic checkpoints - resume interrupted searches
- **Export Results**: Save available names to CSV or XLSX spreadsheets
- **Batch Search**: Check multiple usernames at once (tested with 500+ names)
- **Dual Platform Support**: Search both OSRS and RS3 Hiscores
- **Random Name Generator**: Generate 2-3 letter/number combinations for rare names
- **Real-time Logging**: See detailed progress, validation, and results
- **Non-blocking UI**: Responsive interface that never freezes
- **Smart Validation**: Comprehensive input validation with helpful error messages
- **Copy to Clipboard**: Easily copy available names with one click
- **Stop Anytime**: Interrupt long searches without waiting

# ✍️ Manual Setup
+ Download [Python](https://www.python.org/)
+ Clone repo `https://github.com/axeljackal/Runescape-Name-Checker.git`
+ Install requirements `pip install -r requirements.txt`
+ Run code `python3 main.py` <br />

# 📖 How to Use

## Basic Search
1. Enter names separated by commas in the input field
2. Select OSRS or RS3 Hiscores
3. Click "Check Name Availability"

## File Loading
1. Click "Load File" button
2. Select a .txt file with one name per line
3. Names will automatically populate the input field

## Multi-Threading
- Use the slider to adjust concurrent workers (1-10)
- More workers = faster checking (up to API limits)
- Default: 5 workers for balanced performance

## Progress Tracking
- Progress automatically saves to `progress.json`
- If interrupted, restart the app and continue searching
- Already-checked names are automatically skipped (errors are retryable)
- Click "Clear Progress" to reset checkpoint data
- Check `logs/` directory for detailed run logs with timestamps

## Export Results
1. After checking names, click "Export Results"
2. Choose CSV or XLSX format
3. Select save location
4. Opens organized spreadsheet with NAME, AVAILABLE, STATUS, and ERROR columns

# ✏️ Generate
You can now generate (50) unique 2/3 letter /+ number RSN's to check

![Image](/images/generate.png?raw=true "Generate")

You can change how many names to generate by editing the generate functions
```python
def two_letter_func(name_entry):
    names = ["".join(random.choices(string.ascii_letters, k=2)) for _ in range(50)]
    name_entry.delete(0, "end")
    name_entry.insert(0, ",".join(names))
```
Where it says `for _ in range(50)` change `50` to your desired number

# ❤️ Credits
+ [aellas](https://github.com/aellas) for original RSNChecker code and concept
+ [Luciano Feder](https://github.com/lucianofeder) for [RS3 API Wrapper](https://github.com/lucianofeder/runescape3-api-wrapper)
+ [Chasesc](https://github.com/Chasesc) for [OSRS API Wrapper](https://github.com/Chasesc/OSRS-API-Wrapper)

Commit message:

Update README.md to enhance drag & drop file loading instructions and clarify file loading options

README.md, after:

# 🔎 RSNChecker [Version: 1.7]

# 🔎 RSNChecker [Version: 1.8]

**RSNChecker** is an open-source project written in Python that allows you to search for a Runescape name to see if it's available. You can search for either a single username or enter multiple usernames (I've tested 500 usernames at once) with the added benefit of either checking OSRS Hiscores or RS3 Hiscores.

## ✨ What's New in Version 1.8

- 📋 **Enhanced Progress Tracking**: Detailed per-name status with retry capability for errors
- 📝 **Run-Specific Logging**: Automatic log file creation for each run (timestamped)
- 🔄 **Smart Retry Logic**: Failed checks are retryable, successful checks are skipped
- 📊 **Better Export**: CSV/XLSX exports now include status and error columns
- 🎯 **Detailed Statistics**: Track checked, available, taken, and error counts
- 🗂️ **Improved Progress Format**: JSON with per-name metadata (status, timestamp, error details)
- 🖱️ **Drag & Drop Support**: Drag .txt files directly onto the window to load names

## 🎯 Features

- **Enhanced Progress Tracking**: Per-name status tracking (checked/error/pending) with retry capability
- **Run-Specific Logging**: Automatic timestamped log files in `logs/` directory for debugging
- **Drag & Drop Support**: Simply drag .txt files onto the window to load names instantly
- **File Loading**: Load usernames from .txt files via button or drag & drop
- **Multi-Threading**: Check multiple names simultaneously (1-10 concurrent workers)
- **Export Results**: Save results to CSV or XLSX with status and error information
- **Batch Search**: Check multiple usernames at once (tested with 500+ names)
- **Dual Platform Support**: Search both OSRS and RS3 Hiscores
- **Random Name Generator**: Generate 2-3 letter/number combinations for rare names
- **Real-time Logging**: See detailed progress, validation, and results
- **Non-blocking UI**: Responsive interface that never freezes
- **Smart Validation**: Comprehensive input validation with helpful error messages

## ✨ What's New in Version 1.7

- � **File Loading**: Load names from .txt files with one name per line
- ⚡ **Multi-Threading**: Parallel name checking with configurable workers (1-10)
- � **Progress Tracking**: Automatic checkpoint system - resume where you left off
- 📊 **Export Results**: Export available names to CSV or XLSX format
- 🎚️ **Worker Control**: Adjust concurrent threads with slider for optimal performance
- 🔄 **Smart Resume**: Automatically skips already-checked names
- �️ **Clear Progress**: Reset checkpoint data with one click

# 🧭 Demo

![Image](/images/image.png?raw=true "Demo")

## 🎯 Features

- **File Loading**: Load usernames from .txt files for easy batch processing
- **Multi-Threading**: Check multiple names simultaneously (1-10 concurrent workers)
- **Progress Tracking**: Automatic checkpoints - resume interrupted searches
- **Export Results**: Save available names to CSV or XLSX spreadsheets
- **Batch Search**: Check multiple usernames at once (tested with 500+ names)
- **Dual Platform Support**: Search both OSRS and RS3 Hiscores
- **Random Name Generator**: Generate 2-3 letter/number combinations for rare names
- **Real-time Logging**: See detailed progress, validation, and results
- **Non-blocking UI**: Responsive interface that never freezes
- **Smart Validation**: Comprehensive input validation with helpful error messages
- **Copy to Clipboard**: Easily copy available names with one click
- **Stop Anytime**: Interrupt long searches without waiting

# ✍️ Manual Setup
+ Download [Python](https://www.python.org/)
+ Clone repo `https://github.com/axeljackal/Runescape-Name-Checker.git`
+ Install requirements `pip install -r requirements.txt`
+ Run code `python3 main.py` <br />

# 📖 How to Use

## Basic Search
1. Enter names separated by commas in the input field
2. Select OSRS or RS3 Hiscores
3. Click "Check Name Availability"

## File Loading

**Option 1: Button**
1. Click "Load File" button
2. Select a .txt file with one name per line
3. Names will automatically populate the input field

**Option 2: Drag & Drop** 🆕
1. Open your .txt file in File Explorer
2. Drag the file and drop it anywhere on the RSNChecker window
3. Names will automatically populate the input field
4. See confirmation in logs: "📂 Dropped X names from: filename.txt"

## Multi-Threading
- Use the slider to adjust concurrent workers (1-10)
- More workers = faster checking (up to API limits)
- Default: 5 workers for balanced performance

## Progress Tracking
- Progress automatically saves to `progress.json`
- If interrupted, restart the app and continue searching
- Already-checked names are automatically skipped (errors are retryable)
- Click "Clear Progress" to reset checkpoint data
- Check `logs/` directory for detailed run logs with timestamps

## Export Results

1. After checking names, click "Export Results"
2. File automatically saves to `output/rsn_results_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.xlsx`
3. Opens in output folder with timestamp
4. Includes NAME, AVAILABLE, STATUS, and ERROR columns

# ✏️ Generate
You can now generate (50) unique 2/3 letter /+ number RSN's to check

![Image](/images/generate.png?raw=true "Generate")

You can change how many names to generate by editing the generate functions
```python
def two_letter_func(name_entry):
    names = ["".join(random.choices(string.ascii_letters, k=2)) for _ in range(50)]
    name_entry.delete(0, "end")
    name_entry.insert(0, ",".join(names))
```
Where it says `for _ in range(50)` change `50` to your desired number

# ❤️ Credits
+ [aellas](https://github.com/aellas) for original RSNChecker code and concept
+ [Luciano Feder](https://github.com/lucianofeder) for [RS3 API Wrapper](https://github.com/lucianofeder/runescape3-api-wrapper)
+ [Chasesc](https://github.com/Chasesc) for [OSRS API Wrapper](https://github.com/Chasesc/OSRS-API-Wrapper)
